start on api & extension docs & geyser system property docs (#159)
GeyserMC/GeyserWiki: _docs/geyser/extensions.md

---
title: Geyser Extensions
---

## Geyser Extensions
Geyser Extensions are the equivalent of "plugins", but specifically for the Geyser platform. This brings the advantage of them being platform-agnostic, meaning that you won't have to worry about supporting all platforms individually. Additionally, they will be, by design, only applied for Bedrock players joining via Geyser.

### What can Geyser Extensions do?
Extensions can fully utilize the Geyser API to add additional functionality to Geyser. See [Geyser API docs](/geyser/geyser-api/) for info on what is currently possible. To name a few examples:
- Register custom items
- Hide commands from being suggested
- Change the MOTD
- Register your own commands
- Listen to events, e.g. the emote event.

The underlying Geyser API is steadily expanding, creating more and more opportunities.

### Which Geyser Extensions exist?

> At the moment, not a lot. This is due to Extensions being quite new, and that most stuff can already be done with "normal" plugins/mods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, extensions are still a new system, so there is only a small list of known extensions for Geyser. However, new extensions are always being created!
```

There is an [official list](https://github.com/GeyserMC/GeyserExtensionList) of available extensions you can check out.

### Installing Extensions
To install an extension, simply put the extension .jar file into Geyser's 'extensions' folder. Then, restart Geyser (or the server Geyser runs on).

### Creating Geyser Extensions

> The easiest way to create an extension would be using [this official template](https://github.com/GeyserMC/GeyserExampleExtension/). Simply create a new repository from the template, customize the 'extension.yml' & 'settings.gradle' files, and get started making the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to create an extension would be cloning [this official template](https://github.com/GeyserMC/GeyserExampleExtension/). Simply create a new repository from the template, customize the 'extension.yml' & 'settings.gradle' files, and get started making the extension.
```

Author: But do you really "clone" a template? Github itself calls it "use this template"

api: 2.1.1
version: 1.0.0
authors: [ExampleAuthor]
```

Explanations for the individual fields:
- id: The id of the extension. Every extension needs to have their unique id - all lowercase letters. If you e.g. register a command for your extension, it will have the id as a prefix: e.g. '/exampleid command'.
- name: The name of the extension.
- main: The main class of your extension.
- api: The Geyser api version your extension targets.
- authors: The author(s) of the extension. To add more than one entry, separate entries with a comma.

The main class, the entrypoint for the extension, needs to [implement the 'Extension' interface provided by Geyser](https://github.com/GeyserMC/GeyserExampleExtension/blob/47614575a69bddecb241676215f3c9f9113db304/src/main/java/org/geyser/extension/exampleid/ExampleExtension.java#L10). 
That way, Geyser recognizes the extension, and gives you access to important methods - such as 'logger()', to get your extensions logger. <br>
To see all the methods provided by that interface, see [here](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Geyser/blob/master/api/src/main/java/org/geysermc/geyser/api/extension/Extension.java).

> If you wish to register custom items, global resource packs (or soon, custom blocks and entities), you would need to subscribe to the event using the @Subscribe annotation, 

Reviewer: This should be moved further down. Would also note the distinction between other platforms (i.e. Spigot) that use `onEnable` and `onDisable` and the fact that extensions uses events. I'd also include a bit about the other lifecycle events, like preinitialize and shutdown.

and register them in the event. You can find an example for custom items [here](/geyser/custom-items/#geyser-extensions).

> The bulk of your code would go into the PostInitializeEvent, when Geyser is ready to accept & handle players. See below for an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bulk of your code would go into the `GeyserPostInitializeEvent`, when Geyser is ready to accept & handle players. See below for an example:
```

```java
@Subscribe
public void onPostInitialize(GeyserPostInitializeEvent event) {
    // example: show that your extension is loading.
    this.logger().info("Loading example extension...");
}
```

> To build your extension, run gradle build task, and install the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build your extension, run Gradle build task, and install the extension.
```

                .bedrockOnly(true) // only allow bedrock players to execute this command
                .source(CommandSource.class) // set the source of the command
                .aliases(List.of("example", "ex")) // set aliases for the command
                .description("An example command") // set the description of the command
                .executableOnConsole(false) 
                .suggestedOpOnly(false)
                .permission("example.command") // set the permission for the command
                .executor((source, cmd, args) -> {
                    // this is the command executor - this is where you would put your code to execute the command.
                    // source is the source that executed the command
                    // cmd is the command that was executed
                    // args are the arguments passed to the command
                    source.sendMessage("Hello World");
                })
                .build();
```

To register the command, you would need to subscribe to the GeyserDefineCommandsEvent, and register the command there:
```java
@Subscribe
public void onDefineCommands(GeyserDefineCommandsEvent event) {

>     event.registerCommand(command);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    event.register(command);
```

}
```

> If everything went right, you should be able to execute the command in-game by running "/extesionid [command]" - in our case, "/exampleid examplecommand".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything went right, you should be able to execute the command in-game by running "/extesionid [command]" - in our case, "/<exampleid> examplecommand".
```

Author: Doing this would result in the "exampleid" text not being shown at all due to markdown formatting - also, i am setting "exampleid" here as that is the id set in the exemplary extension.yml here

Here, it would send "Hello World" to the source that ran the command.
Since we also set aliases, you could also run "/exampleid example" or "/exampleid ex" for the same command.
To provide args, simple run "/exampleid examplecommand [args]" - replacing [args] with the arguments you want to pass to the command.

> ### Listening to events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Listening to Events
```

See [here](/geyser/geyser-api#events) for documentation. You do not need to register the event listener, Geyser will do that for you.

---

Facing troubles with extensions?
- Make sure you are using the latest version of Geyser - older versions might not have the latest API changes.
- Add debug prints.

> - Ask in Geyser's discord server's #development channel for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ask in the #development channel in the [Geyser Discord server](https://discord.gg/geysermc).
```

---
title: Geyser Extensions
---

## Geyser Extensions
Geyser Extensions are the equivalent of "plugins", but specifically for the Geyser platform. This brings the advantage of them being platform-agnostic, meaning that you won't have to worry about supporting all platforms individually. Additionally, they will be, by design, only applied for Bedrock players joining via Geyser.

### What can Geyser Extensions do?
Extensions can fully utilize the Geyser API to add additional functionality to Geyser. See [Geyser API docs](/geyser/geyser-api/) for info on what is currently possible. To name a few examples:
- Register custom items
- Hide commands from being suggested
- Change the MOTD
- Register your own commands
- Listen to events, e.g. the emote event.

The underlying Geyser API is steadily expanding, creating more and more opportunities.

### Which Geyser Extensions exist?
At the moment, extensions are still a new system, so there is only a small list of known extensions for Geyser. However, new extensions are always being created!

> There is an [official list](https://github.com/GeyserMC/GeyserExtensionList) of available extensions you can check out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is an [official list](https://github.com/GeyserMC/GeyserExtensionList) of available extensions you can check out. If you have an extension you'd like to see on this list, feel free to open a PR!
```

api: 2.1.1
version: 1.0.0
authors: [ExampleAuthor]
```

Explanations for the individual fields:
- id: The id of the extension. Every extension needs to have their unique id - all lowercase letters. If you e.g. register a command for your extension, it will have the id as a prefix: e.g. '/exampleid command'.
- name: The name of the extension.
- main: The main class of your extension.
- api: The Geyser api version your extension targets.
- authors: The author(s) of the extension. To add more than one entry, separate entries with a comma.

### Creating the main class

The main class, the entrypoint for the extension, needs to [implement the 'Extension' interface provided by Geyser](https://github.com/GeyserMC/GeyserExampleExtension/blob/47614575a69bddecb241676215f3c9f9113db304/src/main/java/org/geyser/extension/exampleid/ExampleExtension.java#L10). 
That way, Geyser recognizes the extension, and gives you access to important methods - such as 'logger()', to get your extensions logger. <br>
To see all the methods provided by that interface, see [here](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Geyser/blob/master/api/src/main/java/org/geysermc/geyser/api/extension/Extension.java).

> Unlike plugins, extensions do not have a 'onEnable' or 'onDisable' method. Instead, most actions are done in events at different stages during Geyser's lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike plugins, extensions do not have a 'onEnable' or 'onDisable' method. Instead, most actions are done in events at different stages during Geyser's lifecycle using events.
```

Some important ones are:
- `GeyserPreInitializeEvent`: This event is fired when Geyser starts to initialize. If you e.g. need to register extension commands that are configured in your config, 
you would need to load the config here to ensure that your config is ready before the GeyserDefineCommandsEvent is fired. 
- `GeyserPostInitializeEvent`: It is called when Geyser has completed initializing. The bulk of your code should go here, as the GeyserAPI is fully available at this stage.
- `GeyserShutdownEvent`: Called when Geyser is shutting down. You can use this to e.g. save data, or clean up resources.

> The bulk of your code would go into the `GeyserPostInitializeEvent`, when Geyser is ready to accept & handle players. See below for an example:

Reviewer: The fact that the bulk of code should be here is mentioned earlier.

Author: fixed; ty

```java
@Subscribe
public void onPostInitialize(GeyserPostInitializeEvent event) {
    // example: show that your extension is loading.
    this.logger().info("Loading example extension...");
}
```

> If you wish to register custom items, global resource packs (or soon, custom blocks and entities), you would need to subscribe to the event using the @Subscribe annotation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to register custom items, global resource packs (or soon, custom blocks and entities), you will need to subscribe to the event using the @Subscribe annotation,
```

### Creating commands with Geyser Extensions
To create a command, you would need to use the "Commands" package in the Geyser API. Brief rundown:
- [Command.java](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Geyser/blob/master/api/src/main/java/org/geysermc/geyser/api/command/Command.java)
  This interface represents a command in Geyser - to make one, you can use the CommandBuilder. You can register it with the
  [GeyserDefineCommandsEvent](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Geyser/blob/master/api/src/main/java/org/geysermc/geyser/api/event/lifecycle/GeyserDefineCommandsEvent.java)
- [CommandExecutor.java](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Geyser/blob/master/api/src/main/java/org/geysermc/geyser/api/command/CommandExecutor.java)
  This interface represents a command execute handler in Geyser, and extends the CommandSource interface.
- [CommandSource.java](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Geyser/blob/master/api/src/main/java/org/geysermc/geyser/api/command/CommandSource.java)
  This interface represents a command source in Geyser. It can be used to e.g. send messages to the source, check if the source has permission to execute a command, or get the locale.

```java

> Command command = Command.builder(this) // "this" is the extension's main class
>                 .name("ExampleCommand")
>                 .bedrockOnly(true) // only allow bedrock players to execute this command
>                 .source(CommandSource.class) // set the source of the command
>                 .aliases(List.of("example", "ex")) // set aliases for the command
>                 .description("An example command") // set the description of the command
>                 .executableOnConsole(false) 
>                 .suggestedOpOnly(false)
>                 .permission("example.command") // set the permission for the command
>                 .executor((source, cmd, args) -> {
>                     // this is the command executor - this is where you would put your code to execute the command.
>                     // source is the source that executed the command
>                     // cmd is the command that was executed
>                     // args are the arguments passed to the command
>                     source.sendMessage("Hello World");
>                 })
>                 .build();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Command command = Command.builder(this) // "this" is the extension's main class
        .name("ExampleCommand")
        .bedrockOnly(true) // only allow bedrock players to execute this command
        .source(CommandSource.class) // set the source of the command
        .aliases(List.of("example", "ex")) // set aliases for the command
        .description("An example command") // set the description of the command
        .executableOnConsole(false) 
        .suggestedOpOnly(false)
        .permission("example.command") // set the permission for the command
        .executor((source, cmd, args) -> {
            // this is the command executor - this is where you would put your code to execute the command.
            // source is the source that executed the command
            // cmd is the command that was executed
            // args are the arguments passed to the command
            source.sendMessage("Hello World");
        })
        .build();
```
I also don't think that comments are really needed here. It's more to give a general feeling of how commands should be made and how you register them. For an explanation of the individual methods you have the javadocs.

Author: Reduced the amount of comments; i personally would leave in a few select ones about "this" and the executor
